Now that you've seen some of
the data issues and
detection workflows
and got an idea of
the importance of productions
scale data validation.
Let's take a look at
TensorFlow Data Validation,
which is a library from
Google as part of
the TFX Ecosystem.
It'll allow you to do
data validation using Python
and we'll do an
exercise doing that.
TensorFlow Data
Validation or TFDV,
helps developers
understand, validate,
and monitor their
ML data at scale.
TFDV is used to analyze and
validate petabytes
of data at Google
every day across
hundreds or thousands of
different applications that
are currently in production.
TFDV helps TFX users maintain
the health of their ML pipelines.
TFDV helps generate
data statistics
and provides browser
visualizations.
It also helps infer the
schema for your data,
but you will need to make
sure that that
schema makes sense.
It'll do an inference
that is best effort.
Once it has these
statistics and schema,
it can look for problems
are anomalies in your data.
Then it will look at the
training serving skew
by comparing the data in
your training and your
serving datasets.
One of the common use cases is
continuously checking
newly arriving data
by validating it
against the expectations
which you have in
the reference schema that
you generated from
your training data.
The typical setup
uses the schema,
which is maintained over time,
and the statistics are
computed over new data and
those statistics are used to
validate the data against
the original schema.
Remember, we talked about
skew detection and with
TFDV you can easily detect
three different types of skew,
schema skew, feature skew,
and distributions skew.
TFDV performs skew or
drift detection on
categorical features and skew is
expressed in terms of
an L-infinity distance,
which is also known as
Chebyshev distance.
If you think of a chessboard,
it's the distance metric that is
the maximum absolute distance in
one-dimension of two
n-dimensional points.
You can set thresholds
so that you'll receive
warnings when the drift is
higher than what you
think is acceptable.
Schema skew occurs when the
serving and training data
don't conform to the same schema.
For example, it could
be a change in type,
an int, where you're
expecting a float,
which could be a change
in the feature itself.
Feature skew are changes in
the feature values between
training and serving.
It could happen as the system
uses different data sources
during training and serving
or things change or of course,
things like seasonality
and trend as well.
Sometimes that simply because
you have two different code paths
and you're trying to do
the same transformations,
both when you trained
your model and
when you're serving
your model using
two different code paths
and you're getting different
results as a consequence.
There's ways to avoid doing
that and we'll talk
about that later.
Distribution skew is changes in
the distribution of individual
features in the dataset.
Features that's in training
might have a range of
0-100 when you're training
it and then at serving time,
you're seeing data between 5-600.
That would be a change in
the distribution
for that feature.
You got to have things
like changes is the
mean or the median or the
standard deviation changes,
all of those are changes
in distribution.
Depending on how severe it is,
it may or may not be a problem.
The question is, does it
affect your model performance
enough that you need to make
changes to try to account for it?
TFDV provides you with
descriptive statistics at scale.
Remember, we could be working
with petabytes of data.
It provides some
visualizations as well to help
you monitor and really
understand that data.
Trying to understand the
underlying statistics
for your data and do comparisons.
How does your training and
evaluation and serving
datasets compare?
Just in terms of statistics,
for example, do they
have the same mean?
How can you calculate and fix or
detect rather and
fix data anomalies.
We did a lot here.
Just to wrap up, this week,
you saw differences
between ML modeling in
academic or research environments
and production ML systems.
We discussed responsible
data collection and how to
really approach building a
fair production ML system.
We learned about
process feedback and
direct labeling and
also human labeling.
We looked at some of the
issues that you can have with
data and how to identify
and detect those issues.
Now, we're going to be
practicing Data
Validation with TFDV,
TensorFlow Data Validation in
this week's exercise notebook.
You'll be testing
your skills with
the programming assignment
by generating datasets,
statistics, and
creating and comparing
and updating data
schemas. Good luck.